README.md, before:

VBinDiff - Visual Binary Diff
=============================

[Visual Binary Diff (VBinDiff)](http://www.cjmweb.net/vbindiff/) displays files in hexadecimal and ASCII (or EBCDIC).  It can also display two files at once, and highlight the differences between them.  Unlike diff, it works well with large files (up to 64 GB).

VBinDiff was inspired by the Compare Files function of the [ProSel utilities by Glen Bredon](http://www.apple2.org.za/gswv/USA2WUG/Glen.Bredon.In.Memoriam/A2.Software/), for the [Apple II](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_II).  When I couldn't find a similar utility for the PC, I wrote it myself.

The single-file mode was inspired by the LIST utility of [4DOS and friends](http://jpsoft.com/take-command-windows-scripting.html).  While [less](http://www.greenwoodsoftware.com/less/) provides a good line-oriented display, it has no equivalent to LIST's hex display.  (True, you can pipe the file through [hexdump](http://linux.die.net/man/1/hexdump), but that's incredibly inefficient on multi-gigabyte files.)


Working with This Repository
----------------------------

* Clone this repository and cd into it.
* If you're working on a Unix system, run autoreconf -i
* To compile use the normal `./configure && make` process on Unix, or open `win32/vbindiff.dsw` on Windows.

To build the documentation, you'll also need [Perl](http://www.perl.org/), [Date::Format](https://metacpan.org/module/Date::Format), and [Template-Toolkit](https://metacpan.org/release/Template-Toolkit).  For Windows, I recommend [Strawberry Perl](http://strawberryperl.com/), which comes with the necessary modules.  On Unix, your distro may have packages, or you can install from [CPAN](http://www.cpan.org/).  Package names for some distros are:

* [Arch Linux](https://www.archlinux.org/): `perl perl-template-toolkit perl-timedate`
* [Gentoo Linux](http://www.gentoo.org/): `dev-lang/perl dev-perl/Template-Toolkit dev-perl/TimeDate`
* [Ubuntu](http://www.ubuntu.com/): `perl libtemplate-perl libtimedate-perl`

If you're developing on Unix, I suggest you also `cp -a tools/post-commit .git/hooks/`.  That hook will touch `configure.ac` after each commit that modifies it, causing `configure` to be regenerated and making `AC_REVISION` reflect the new commit.


Copyright and License
---------------------

Visual Binary Diff is copyright 1995-2013 by Christopher J. Madsen

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the [GNU General Public License](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html) as published by the Free Software Foundation; either [version 2 of the License](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.html), or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

Commit message:

added note about the original repo

README.md, after:

VBinDiff - Visual Binary Diff
=============================

[Visual Binary Diff (VBinDiff)](http://www.cjmweb.net/vbindiff/) displays files in hexadecimal and ASCII (or EBCDIC).  It can also display two files at once, and highlight the differences between them.  Unlike diff, it works well with large files (up to 64 GB).

VBinDiff was inspired by the Compare Files function of the [ProSel utilities by Glen Bredon](http://www.apple2.org.za/gswv/USA2WUG/Glen.Bredon.In.Memoriam/A2.Software/), for the [Apple II](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_II).  When I couldn't find a similar utility for the PC, I wrote it myself.

The single-file mode was inspired by the LIST utility of [4DOS and friends](http://jpsoft.com/take-command-windows-scripting.html).  While [less](http://www.greenwoodsoftware.com/less/) provides a good line-oriented display, it has no equivalent to LIST's hex display.  (True, you can pipe the file through [hexdump](http://linux.die.net/man/1/hexdump), but that's incredibly inefficient on multi-gigabyte files.)

NOTE: Since the original upstream repository at https://github.com/madsen/vbindiff/ seems to be abandoned, and had a few critical issues, i made this repo that includes all pending fixes/patches.


Working with This Repository
----------------------------

* Clone this repository and cd into it.
* If you're working on a Unix system, run autoreconf -i
* To compile use the normal `./configure && make` process on Unix, or open `win32/vbindiff.dsw` on Windows.

To build the documentation, you'll also need [Perl](http://www.perl.org/), [Date::Format](https://metacpan.org/module/Date::Format), and [Template-Toolkit](https://metacpan.org/release/Template-Toolkit).  For Windows, I recommend [Strawberry Perl](http://strawberryperl.com/), which comes with the necessary modules.  On Unix, your distro may have packages, or you can install from [CPAN](http://www.cpan.org/).  Package names for some distros are:

* [Arch Linux](https://www.archlinux.org/): `perl perl-template-toolkit perl-timedate`
* [Gentoo Linux](http://www.gentoo.org/): `dev-lang/perl dev-perl/Template-Toolkit dev-perl/TimeDate`
* [Ubuntu](http://www.ubuntu.com/): `perl libtemplate-perl libtimedate-perl`

If you're developing on Unix, I suggest you also `cp -a tools/post-commit .git/hooks/`.  That hook will touch `configure.ac` after each commit that modifies it, causing `configure` to be regenerated and making `AC_REVISION` reflect the new commit.


Copyright and License
---------------------

Visual Binary Diff is copyright 1995-2013 by Christopher J. Madsen

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the [GNU General Public License](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html) as published by the Free Software Foundation; either [version 2 of the License](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.html), or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.
